# Software Engineering

## Concerns
* **Non-technical issues**
  *   Fundraising
* **Technical issues**
  * Security
  * Database of contacts
  * Where to store data
  * UI/UX
  * Recording friends' contact info
  * Network connectivity
  * Deployment
  * Portability
 
## Software Problems
* Data usage
* Scripting
* Integration
* Configuration
* Testing
* Versioning/evolution
* Low-level debugging (GDB, linking)
* Client-server model

## Application Objectives
In order to build and design a successful application, strive for the following:
1. Is understandable to users AND developers
2. Is fast
3. Makes a reasonable distinction between what is **persistent** and what is **volatile**
> - **Persistent (aka nonvolatile)**: Data that is stored in a flash drive, etc. (secondary
>   storage). Data that continues to exist even when the machine loses power.
> - **Volatile**: Data that is stored in RAM. Data that can be processed very quickly but is
>   lost when the power goes out.

## Philosophies in Software Construction
### Software Tools Philosophy
Don't write a big program intended to solve all of your problems! Instead design your application as a collection of simple tools, each tailored to solve 
a smaller sub-problem really well. Embrace building **simple, compact, clear, modular and extensible code**.

### Little Languages Philosophy
Design small languages for each tool. As your application grows, it gets too complicated for all your tools to share the same language.
Since tools are made to be specialized and not generalized, it is best to pair each tool with a simple language that does its job well.

## Categories of Software Law
### (1) Copyright Law

### (3) Trade Secrets



