# Intro

## Systems
A system is just anything that takes some input, does something with it, and produces
an output. Systems can be broken down into two different categories, digital systems 
and analog systems. The nature of their inputs and outputs are what distinguishes them from each other.

- **Digital Systems**: finite number of discrete values as the inputs/outputs
- **Analog Systems**: continuous (infinite) set of inputs/outputs.

Systems that do the same task can be built using both ways. For example, in many 
grocery stores, there are bucket scales that measure the weight of the food that
you are purchasing. This would be an example of weighing something with an analog 
system. But we also have a digital food scales as well. The ones that fitness experts
use in their kitchen to measure the amount of food they should be eating.

### So why choose digital?
Here are a couple of reasons people choose to implement systems digitally...
1. It allows for both numerical and nonnumerical information to be processed
2. Information can be processed using a general-purpose system rather than having to
   use a separate system for each specified task
3. We can represent many different signals with just two different values ( 0 and 1)
4. They are insensitive to small variations in parameter values (ex. the wind
   blowing has no effect on the reading of you digital scale. While it may affect
   the hanging bucket scale)
5. In order to make it more accurate, all we have to do is simply increase the number
   of digits we are using in our representation model
6. We have advanced microelectronics technology so far already. Why not take
   advantage of the ability to fabricate extremely complex digital systems which are
   small, fast, and cheap!
7. Allows us to implement a system in different ways which gives us the ability to
   optimize it.

### Input and Output Representations
To analyze systems, we need some way to show how an input goes to its output. Here are a couple of ways to do it.

- Tables
- Arithmetic Expression
- Conditional Expression
- Logical Expression
- Combination of simpler functions

### Types of Digital Systems
Digital systems are separated into two separate classes: Combinational systems and 
Sequential systems. The focus on the rest of this class will be on learning to specify and implement these types of systems.

- **Combinational Systems**
  - have no memory, their output only depends on the current input going in. They
    have no way of recollecting previous inputs

- **Sequential Systems**
  - have memory, their output depends on both previous inputs and the current state
    the system is in.

## Data Representation and Manipulation
Computers use the binary bits, 0 and 1, to represent data. There are three different 
binary representations, each building on top of the other. 

### Method 1: Unsigned Binary Numbers
Ex. To represent the numbers 0 through 15, we need 4 bits...
1101 = (1 x 2^3) + (1 x 2^2) + (0 x 2^1) + (1 x 2^0) = 13

We can also add binary numbers like this.
```
  0101 (= 5)
+ 0110 (= 6)
------
  1011 (= 11)
```

Drawbacks: We can't represent negative numbers! We need a better idea...

### Method 2: Signed Binary Numbers
Now we introduce the the idea of the "MSB" (Most Significant Bit). The MSB is the 
leftmost bit in our binary number. So in the number 1000, our MSB is 1 and in 0101
our MSB is 0. 

For signed binary, we say if our MSB is 0 then our number is positive and if it's 1
then our number is negative.

Ex. 1110 = (-1) + (1 x 2^2) + (1 x 2^1) + (0 x 2^0) = -6

**Drawbacks**: Their are two different versions of zero (0000 and 1000). Addition is also complicated. So what's the best idea?

## Best Method: Two's Complement Representation
Now instead of letting the MSB just dictate whether the number is negative or not, 
we use it to represent the negative of a power of 2. So if we have a binary number 
with four bits, the MSB bit would represent -(2^3). Notice that the MSB bit will be 
negative no matter what. If we were using only 3 bits, the MSB bit would be -(2^2) 
= -4.

Ex. 1110 = -(2^3) + (2^2) + (2^-1) = -2

### Negating a Two's Complement Number
In order to negate (make a positive a negative) a two's complement number, all you 
have to do is invert every bit and add 1 to the result.

So if x = 0110 then negating it will give you x' = 1001 + 1 = 1010. You can see we 
went from 6 to -6 using this technique.

### Sign Extension on Two's Complement
What if you want to go from using 4 bits to using 8 bits in two's complement 
representation?

All you do is take the MSB and extend it leftwards.

For example, lets start out with 0110, the 4 bit representation of positive 6. If
you want to go to 8 bits, that is just 00000110 (prepend 0110 with four zeros). If 
you started out with 1010 (-6) then you should get 11111010 (prepend with four ones).

### Addition and Subtraction in Two's Complement
To add 2 two's complement nummbers, simply use the "elementary school algorithm", and throw away any carry out of the MSB position. 

To subtract, simply negate the second number and then add.

But you must understand something first before you start using this! Sometimes when
doing these operations in two's complement, the answer you get cannot be 
represented with the given number of bits. This is what's called **overflow**.

Overflow will occur when both addends have the same sign but the answer has a 
different sign. It will never occur when one number is positive and the other is 
negative. 

Here's an example of overflow
```
  0101 (= 5)
+ 0011 (= 3)
------
  1000 (= -8?! That's wrong!)
```

