# Boolean Expressions

## Switching Expressions
There are three operations that you need to know.

### OR (+)
The `+` symbol represents the logical OR. For a referesher this is when OR outputs 1 and when
it doesn't. 
```
0 + 0 = 0
1 + 0 = 1
0 + 1 = 1
1 + 1 = 1
```
As you can see, it always results to 1 if at least one of the operands is 1.
Also notice that I am not doing addition here. So when you are reading this, it is
not "1 plus 0 is 1". Instead it is "1 OR 0 is 1". If it helps, you can visualize it
like this...
```
0 OR 0 = 0
1 OR 0 = 1
0 OR 1 = 1
1 OR 1 = 1
```
### AND (⋅)
The `·` symbol represents the logical AND. Here's how it works.
```
0 · 0 = 0
1 · 0 = 0
0 · 1 = 0
1 · 1 = 1
```
As you can see it only results to 1 when both operands are 1.
### COMPLEMENT (')
Complementing a number just inverts it.
```
If x = 0 then x' = 1
If x = 1 then x' = 0

If A = 01 then A' = 10
```
## Logic Gates
Later in the course we will know why these are called "Logic Gates" but for now just
understand what they do. Also, for now I'll only explain them using 2 variables. But
they can all be implemented using an 'n' amount of variables.

### AND
Same as above. This will only output 1 when all operands are 1. Notice how we can 
omit the · symbol if we want. Two operands next to each other implicitly tells us 
they are being "AND-ed" together.
```
INPUTS
------------
x2 = 0
x1 = 1
x0 = 1

OUTPUT
------------
x1x0 = 1

x2x0 = 0
```

### OR
Same as above. This will output 1 whenever at least one of the operands is 1. 
```
INPUTS
------------
x2 = 0
x1 = 1
x0 = 1

OUTPUT
------------
x1 + x0 = 1

x2 + x0 = 1
```

### XOR
XOR is the equivalent of `x1x0' + x1'x0`. If you don't want to memorize this then
just remember that XOR will output 0 whenever the inputs are all the same (all 1 or
all 0) and will output 1 whenever the inputs are not the same. 
```
INPUTS
------------
x2 = 0
x1 = 1
x0 = 1

OUTPUT
------------
x1x0' + x1'x0 = 0

x2x0' + x2'x0 = 1
```
### NAND
NAND is expressed by `(x1x0)'`. It is just taking the output of AND and complementing
it. So whenever AND has a result of 1, NAND has a result of 0 and vice-versa.
```
INPUTS
------------
x2 = 0
x1 = 1
x0 = 1

OUTPUT
------------
(x1x0)' = 0

(x2x0)' = 1
```

### NOR



  
